Masterthesis
                                                                            
Multimodal communication plays a pivotal role in the social organization of various species. 
Multimodal recognition is a cognitive process by which different sensory modalities are integrated to form an individual representation. This process may enable animals to more effectively assess their social surroundings. While a variety of species have been demonstrated to recognize conspecifics cross-modally, little is known about the multimodal recognition of heterospecifics.
This experiment aimed to determine whether common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) can identify specific humans using two sensory modalities, auditory (voice) and visual (facial) information. The study was conducted with 15 adult individuals and involved four human participants: two of them were familiar to the marmosets, whereas the other two were unfamiliar. The experiment contained four conditions: (1) familiar human face-voice match, (2) familiar human face-voice mismatch, (3) unfamiliar human face-voice match, (4) unfamiliar human face-voice mismatch.
We expected that marmosets would utilize multimodal recognition to perceive humans and exhibit behavioral differences based on congruency between human faces and voices. Additionally, we predicted them to exhibit the strongest ‘startle’ response when the modalities from familiar humans are mismatched. To test this hypothesis, recorded videos were encoded and analyzed using heatmaps and PCA. However, PCA did not produce clear principal component clusters; therefore, individual behaviors were analyzed across conditions using the Friedman test, with Dunn’s post-hoc tests performed on behaviors showing significant Friedman test p-values. We found that "Gaze Duration" and "Head Swaying Frequency" differenced between conditions, whereby the monkeys’ responded primarily to the familiarity with the human participants. In contrast to our predictions, the congruency of audio-visual stimuli within the familiar category had no significant effect.
These findings contribute to a deeper understanding of marmosets' ability to recognize individual human characteristics and lay the groundwork for future studies exploring cognitive interactions between humans and non-human primates.
